---
NOTE: do not edit this file, it is generated in apps/svelte.dev/scripts/sync-docs/index.ts
title: Advanced routing
---

## Rest parameters

If the number of route segments is unknown, you can use rest syntax ÔÇö for example you might implement GitHub's file viewer like so...

```sh
/[org]/[repo]/tree/[branch]/[...file]
```

...in which case a request for `/sveltejs/kit/tree/main/documentation/docs/04-advanced-routing.md` would result in the following parameters being available to the page:

```js
// @noErrors
{
	org: 'sveltejs',
	repo: 'kit',
	branch: 'main',
	file: 'documentation/docs/04-advanced-routing.md'
}
```

In `load` functions, `+server.js` handlers, and hooks that receive a `RequestEvent`, you can read these values from `event.params`. As of SvelteKit 2.24, pages also receive them as a `params` prop; for a broader introduction, see [Routing](routing).

> [!NOTE] `src/routes/a/[...rest]/z/+page.svelte` will match `/a/z` (i.e. there's no parameter at all) as well as `/a/b/z` and `/a/b/c/z` and so on. Make sure you check that the value of the rest parameter is valid, for example using a [matcher](#Matching).

### 404 pages

Rest parameters also allow you to render custom 404s. Given these routes...

```tree
src/routes/
Ôöť marx-brothers/
Ôöé Ôöť chico/
Ôöé Ôöť harpo/
Ôöé Ôöť groucho/
Ôöé Ôöö +error.svelte
Ôöö +error.svelte
```

...the `marx-brothers/+error.svelte` file will _not_ be rendered if you visit `/marx-brothers/karl`, because no route was matched. If you want to render the nested error page, you should create a route that matches any `/marx-brothers/*` request, and return a 404 from it:

```tree
src/routes/
Ôöť marx-brothers/
+++| Ôöť [...path]/+++
Ôöé Ôöť chico/
Ôöé Ôöť harpo/
Ôöé Ôöť groucho/
Ôöé Ôöö +error.svelte
Ôöö +error.svelte
```

```js
/// file: src/routes/marx-brothers/[...path]/+page.js
import { error } from '@sveltejs/kit';

/** @type {import('./$types').PageLoad} */
export function load(event) {
	error(404, 'Not Found');
}
```

> [!NOTE] If you don't handle 404 cases, they will appear in [`handleError`](hooks#Shared-hooks-handleError)

## Optional parameters

A route like `[lang]/home` contains a parameter named `lang` which is required. Sometimes it's beneficial to make these parameters optional, so that in this example both `home` and `en/home` point to the same page. You can do that by wrapping the parameter in another bracket pair: `[[lang]]/home`

Note that an optional route parameter cannot follow a rest parameter (`[...rest]/[[optional]]`), since parameters are matched 'greedily' and the optional parameter would always be unused.

## Matching

A route like `src/routes/fruits/[page]` would match `/fruits/apple`, but it would also match `/fruits/rocketship`. We don't want that. You can ensure that route parameters are well-formed by adding a _matcher_ ÔÇö which takes the parameter string (`"apple"` or `"rocketship"`) and returns `true` if it is valid ÔÇö to your `src/params` directory...

```js
/// file: src/params/fruit.js
/**
 * @param {string} param
 * @return {param is ('apple' | 'orange')}
 * @satisfies {import('@sveltejs/kit').ParamMatcher}
 */
export function match(param) {
	return param === 'apple' || param === 'orange';
}
```

...and augmenting your routes:

```
src/routes/fruits/[page+++=fruit+++]
```

If the pathname doesn't match, SvelteKit will try to match other routes (using the sort order specified below), before eventually returning a 404.

Each module in the `params` directory corresponds to a matcher, with the exception of `*.test.js` and `*.spec.js` files which may be used to unit test your matchers.

> [!NOTE] Matchers run both on the server and in the browser.

## Sorting

It's possible for multiple routes to match a given path. For example each of these routes would match `/foo-abc`:

```sh
src/routes/[...catchall]/+page.svelte
src/routes/[[a=x]]/+page.svelte
src/routes/[b]/+page.svelte
src/routes/foo-[c]/+page.svelte
src/routes/foo-abc/+page.svelte
```

SvelteKit needs to know which route is being requested. To do so, it sorts them according to the following rules...

- More specific routes are higher priority (e.g. a route with no parameters is more specific than a route with one dynamic parameter, and so on)
- Parameters with [matchers](#Matching) (`[name=type]`) are higher priority than those without (`[name]`)
- `[[optional]]` and `[...rest]` parameters are ignored unless they are the final part of the route, in which case they are treated with lowest priority. In other words `x/[[y]]/z` is treated equivalently to `x/z` for the purposes of sorting
- Ties are resolved alphabetically

...resulting in this ordering, meaning that `/foo-abc` will invoke `src/routes/foo-abc/+page.svelte`, and `/foo-def` will invoke `src/routes/foo-[c]/+page.svelte` rather than less specific routes:

```sh
src/routes/foo-abc/+page.svelte
src/routes/foo-[c]/+page.svelte
src/routes/[[a=x]]/+page.svelte
src/routes/[b]/+page.svelte
src/routes/[...catchall]/+page.svelte
```

## Encoding

Some characters can't be used on the filesystem ÔÇö `/` on Linux and Mac, `\ / : * ? " < > |` on Windows. The `#` and `%` characters have special meaning in URLs, and the `[ ] ( )` characters have special meaning to SvelteKit, so these also can't be used directly as part of your route.

To use these characters in your routes, you can use hexadecimal escape sequences, which have the format `[x+nn]` where `nn` is a hexadecimal character code:

- `\` ÔÇö `[x+5c]`
- `/` ÔÇö `[x+2f]`
- `:` ÔÇö `[x+3a]`
- `*` ÔÇö `[x+2a]`
- `?` ÔÇö `[x+3f]`
- `"` ÔÇö `[x+22]`
- `<` ÔÇö `[x+3c]`
- `>` ÔÇö `[x+3e]`
- `|` ÔÇö `[x+7c]`
- `#` ÔÇö `[x+23]`
- `%` ÔÇö `[x+25]`
- `[` ÔÇö `[x+5b]`
- `]` ÔÇö `[x+5d]`
- `(` ÔÇö `[x+28]`
- `)` ÔÇö `[x+29]`

For example, to create a `/smileys/:-)` route, you would create a `src/routes/smileys/[x+3a]-[x+29]/+page.svelte` file.

You can determine the hexadecimal code for a character with JavaScript:

```js
':'.charCodeAt(0).toString(16); // '3a', hence '[x+3a]'
```

You can also use Unicode escape sequences. Generally you won't need to as you can use the unencoded character directly, but if ÔÇö for some reason ÔÇö you can't have a filename with an emoji in it, for example, then you can use the escaped characters. In other words, these are equivalent:

```
src/routes/[u+d83e][u+dd2a]/+page.svelte
src/routes/­čĄ¬/+page.svelte
```

The format for a Unicode escape sequence is `[u+nnnn]` where `nnnn` is a valid value between `0000` and `10ffff`. (Unlike JavaScript string escaping, there's no need to use surrogate pairs to represent code points above `ffff`.) To learn more about Unicode encodings, consult [Programming with Unicode](https://unicodebook.readthedocs.io/unicode_encodings.html).

> [!NOTE] Since TypeScript [struggles](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues/13399) with directories with a leading `.` character, you may find it useful to encode these characters when creating e.g. [`.well-known`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_URI) routes: `src/routes/[x+2e]well-known/...`

## Advanced layouts

By default, the _layout hierarchy_ mirrors the _route hierarchy_. In some cases, that might not be what you want.

### (group)

Perhaps you have some routes that are 'app' routes that should have one layout (e.g. `/dashboard` or `/item`), and others that are 'marketing' routes that should have a different layout (`/about` or `/testimonials`). We can group these routes with a directory whose name is wrapped in parentheses ÔÇö unlike normal directories, `(app)` and `(marketing)` do not affect the URL pathname of the routes inside them:

```tree
src/routes/
+++Ôöé (app)/+++
Ôöé Ôöť dashboard/
Ôöé Ôöť item/
Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
+++Ôöé (marketing)/+++
Ôöé Ôöť about/
Ôöé Ôöť testimonials/
Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöť admin/
Ôöö +layout.svelte
```

You can also put a `+page` directly inside a `(group)`, for example if `/` should be an `(app)` or a `(marketing)` page.

### Breaking out of layouts

The root layout applies to every page of your app ÔÇö if omitted, it defaults to `{@render children()}`. If you want some pages to have a different layout hierarchy than the rest, then you can put your entire app inside one or more groups _except_ the routes that should not inherit the common layouts.

In the example above, the `/admin` route does not inherit either the `(app)` or `(marketing)` layouts.

### +page@

Pages can break out of the current layout hierarchy on a route-by-route basis. Suppose we have an `/item/[id]/embed` route inside the `(app)` group from the previous example:

```tree
src/routes/
Ôöť (app)/
Ôöé Ôöť item/
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöť [id]/
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöť embed/
+++Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +page.svelte+++
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöö +layout.svelte
```

Ordinarily, this would inherit the root layout, the `(app)` layout, the `item` layout and the `[id]` layout. We can reset to one of those layouts by appending `@` followed by the segment name ÔÇö or, for the root layout, the empty string. In this example, we can choose from the following options:

- `+page@[id].svelte` - inherits from `src/routes/(app)/item/[id]/+layout.svelte`
- `+page@item.svelte` - inherits from `src/routes/(app)/item/+layout.svelte`
- `+page@(app).svelte` - inherits from `src/routes/(app)/+layout.svelte`
- `+page@.svelte` - inherits from `src/routes/+layout.svelte`

```tree
src/routes/
Ôöť (app)/
Ôöé Ôöť item/
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöť [id]/
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöť embed/
+++Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +page@(app).svelte+++
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöö +layout.svelte
```

### +layout@

Like pages, layouts can _themselves_ break out of their parent layout hierarchy, using the same technique. For example, a `+layout@.svelte` component would reset the hierarchy for all its child routes.

```
src/routes/
Ôöť (app)/
Ôöé Ôöť item/
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöť [id]/
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöť embed/
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +page.svelte  // uses (app)/item/[id]/+layout.svelte
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöť +layout.svelte  // inherits from (app)/item/+layout@.svelte
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +page.svelte    // uses (app)/item/+layout@.svelte
Ôöé Ôöé Ôöö +layout@.svelte   // inherits from root layout, skipping (app)/+layout.svelte
Ôöé Ôöö +layout.svelte
Ôöö +layout.svelte
```

### When to use layout groups

Not all use cases are suited for layout grouping, nor should you feel compelled to use them. It might be that your use case would result in complex `(group)` nesting, or that you don't want to introduce a `(group)` for a single outlier. It's perfectly fine to use other means such as composition (reusable `load` functions or Svelte components) or if-statements to achieve what you want. The following example shows a layout that rewinds to the root layout and reuses components and functions that other layouts can also use:

```svelte
<!--- file: src/routes/nested/route/+layout@.svelte --->
<script>
	import ReusableLayout from '$lib/ReusableLayout.svelte';
	let { data, children } = $props();
</script>

<ReusableLayout {data}>
	{@render children()}
</ReusableLayout>
```

```js
/// file: src/routes/nested/route/+layout.js
// @filename: ambient.d.ts
declare module "$lib/reusable-load-function" {
	export function reusableLoad(event: import('@sveltejs/kit').LoadEvent): Promise<Record<string, any>>;
}
// @filename: index.js
// ---cut---
import { reusableLoad } from '$lib/reusable-load-function';

/** @type {import('./$types').PageLoad} */
export function load(event) {
	// Add additional logic here, if needed
	return reusableLoad(event);
}
```

## Further reading

- [Tutorial: Advanced Routing](/tutorial/kit/optional-params)
